Additional documentation for simulation in cylindrical coordinates (#2471)
NanoComp/meep: doc/docs/Exploiting_Symmetry.md

To do this, you must set `dimensions = mp.CYLINDRICAL` in the Python script, and then the vectors are interpreted as $(r,\phi,z)$ triplets instead of $(x,y,z)$.

In a cylindrical simulation, the fields can be written in the form of a function of $(r,z)$ multiplied by a function $\exp(im\phi)$ for the $\phi$ dependence, where $m$ is a user-specified parameter (related to the angular momentum of the field). For reference, Maxwell's equations in cylindrical coordinates and a schematic of the Yee grid are shown below.

![](images/Maxwell_equations_cylindrical.png#center)

![](images/Yee_grid_cylindrical.png#center)

The fields at $r = 0$ must obey certain symmetries determined by the value of $m$:

* $m = 0$: fields are rotation-invariant. At $r = 0$, this means that $E_z$ and $H_z$ can be nonzero, but all the other field components must be zero at the origin (since they are otherwise not rotation-invariant).
* $m = \pm 1$: fields flip sign when rotated by π radians. At $r = 0$, this means that $E_\phi, E_r, H_z, H_r$ can be nonzero, but the $E_z, H_z$ fields must be zero.
* $|m| > 1$: all fields go to zero at $r = 0$.

> Converting the Poynting flux $P_{cyl}(r)$ in cylindrical coordinates for a point source at $r$ to 3d Cartesian coordinates involves multiplication by an $r$-dependent scale factor: $P_{3d} =  P_{cyl}(r) / r^2 \times 2 / \pi^5$. For a point source $r = 0$, the scale factor is $2 / (\pi \Delta r)^2$ where $\Delta r = \Delta z = 1/resolution$.

Reviewer: This is confusing here.

When you do the Poynting flux integral etcetera, Meep automatically includes the 2πr factor.

However zero-thickness sources in the r direction are treated as δ(r) terms, where for some purposes you would rather have δ(r)/r or δ(r)/2πr, and if you want these factors you will need to include them manually (either in the source amplitude or by scaling the resulting computatations).

> Converting the Poynting flux $P_{cyl}(r)$ in cylindrical coordinates for a point source at $r$ to 3d Cartesian coordinates involves multiplication by an $r$-dependent scale factor: $P_{3d} =  P_{cyl}(r) / r^2 \times 2 / \pi^5$. For a point source $r = 0$, the scale factor is $2 / (\pi \Delta r)^2$ where $\Delta r = \Delta z = 1/resolution$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrals in cylindrical coordinates involve a $2 \pi r \, dr$ factor, which is automatically included by Meep when
computing integrated quantities (Poynting flux, energy, etcetera).

A zero-thickness source in the r direction is treated by Meep as a Diract $\delta(r)$ function.  In some contexts you might prefer $\delta(r)/r$ or $\delta(r)/2\pi r$ so that the radial integral is 1; these additional factors can be included by scaling the source amplitude (or by scaling the resulting fields/powers in postprocessing).
```

> 

Author: A discussion on the quasi-PML has been added.

#2472 provides additional documentation to the [tutorial](https://meep.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Python_Tutorials/Cylindrical_Coordinates/#nonaxisymmetric-dipole-sources) for using a near-to-far field transformation to compute the extraction efficiency within an angular cone.
